OSDOCS#7562: Scheduling workloads on multi-arch clusters (#63915)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/multi-architecture-scheduling-examples.adoc

// module included in the following assembly 
//
//post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/multi-architecture-compute-managing.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="multi-architecture-scheduling-examples_{context}"]

= Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments 

There are various cases to consider when you are scheduling workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures. 

> Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled on a certain architecture supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod specification deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled only on a  set of nodes with architectures supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod template specification.
```

+
.Example deployment with the `nodeAffinity` set to certain architectures 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values: <1>
                - amd64
                - arm64
----

> <1> Specify the set of supported architecture. Valid values include `amd64` and `arm64`.

Reviewer: We can add `ppc64le` and `s390x` too.

Author: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/63915#discussion_r1316147010
Not sure about which ones

> Tainting nodes for a specific architecture:: You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with an architecture to be scheduled on that node. In clusters using a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to a `.spec.template.spec.taints` field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tainting nodes for a specific architecture:: You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture to be scheduled on that node. In clusters using a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to a `.spec.template.spec.taints` field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.
```

We should also say that users need to scale down the MachineSet or delete/rollout the already available Machines to updates the taints this way. This scale-in and out process is described in https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/machine_management/modifying-machineset.html, that we could link here.

Reviewer 2: should we avoid these suggestions and just mention that users can taint nodes and leave it at that?

+
.Example `MachineSet` with a taint set
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      [...]
      taints:
      - effect: NoSchedule         
        key: multi-arch.openshift.io/arch                
        value: arm64
----
You can also set a taint on a specific node by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm taint nodes <node-name> multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64:NoSchedule
----

Creating a default toleration:: You can annotate a namespace so all of the workloads get the same default toleration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate namespace my-namespace \
  'scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultTolerations'='[{"operator": "Exists", "effect": "NoSchedule", "key": "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"}]'
----

> Setting a toleration on a tainted node:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in a deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tolerating the architecture taint in workloads:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in their pod template specification
```

+
.Example deployment with a toleration 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"
        value: "arm64"
        operator: "Equal"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
----

> This deployment can be used when you have an existing workload image that is not compatible with the architecture of a new node. 

Reviewer: The example deployment will be allowed on nodes with the `multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64` taint

> Using node affinity with taints and tolerations:: When a scheduler assesses the node set, tolerations can broaden the set while node affinity restricts the set. The following example allows a workload to be scheduled on am `amd64` and `arm64` node with a toleration included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using node affinity with taints and tolerations:: when the scheduler computes the set of candidate nodes to schedule a pod, tolerations can broaden the set while node affinity restricts the set. The following example allows a workload to be scheduled on `amd64` and `arm64` nodes. The toleration is required if you set a taint to the nodes of a given architecture, as depicted in the previous sections.
```

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="multi-architecture-scheduling-examples_{context}"]

= Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments 

There are various cases to consider when you are scheduling workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures. 

Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled on a certain architecture supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod specification deployment.
+
.Example deployment with the `nodeAffinity` set to certain architectures 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values: <1>
                - amd64
                - arm64
----
<1> Specify the set of supported architecture. Valid values include `amd64` and `arm64`.

> //can this be set to the IBM arches as well? 

Reviewer 2: In theory, yes. But until we declare official support for P/Z we don't want to include those arches here

+
.Example `MachineSet` with a taint set
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      [...]
      taints:
      - effect: NoSchedule         
        key: multi-arch.openshift.io/arch                
        value: arm64
----
You can also set a taint on a specific node by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm taint nodes <node-name> multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64:NoSchedule
----

Creating a default toleration:: You can annotate a namespace so all of the workloads get the same default toleration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate namespace my-namespace \
  'scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultTolerations'='[{"operator": "Exists", "effect": "NoSchedule", "key": "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"}]'
----

Setting a toleration on a tainted node:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in a deployment 
//what kind of Deployment is this yaml

> +

Reviewer 2: it could be any deployment. that doesn't matter.

.Example deployment with a toleration 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"
        value: "arm64"
        operator: "Equal"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
----

> //maybe I can add why a user would want to do this?

Reviewer 2: Possibly: one reason could be that existing workload images might not be compatible with the architecture of the newly added node.

// Module included in the following assembly 
//
//post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/multi-architecture-compute-managing.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="multi-architecture-scheduling-examples_{context}"]

= Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments 

> There are various cases to consider when you are scheduling workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures. 

Reviewer 3: "There are" is a vague referent, so maybe something like:

> Before you schedule workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures, consider the following use cases:

> Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled on only a set of nodes with architectures supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod template specification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled on only a set of nodes with architectures supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod's template specification.
```

Reviewer 3: "Allow" might be a form of anthropomorphism if it is directed at the user. But maybe in this case, the verb is directed at an object-to-object relationship? 

See: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-anthropomorphism

Reviewer 3: "its" might get lost among the nouns (workload, nodes, architectures), maybe be more specific (that are supported byt the workload's images)?

Author: Ah gotcha, yeah I see what you mean, lemme re word that. Thank you!

+
.Example deployment with the `nodeAffinity` set to certain architectures 

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 3: See YAML guidance on https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#yaml-formatting-for-kubernetes-and-openshift-api-objects

![Screenshot from 2023-09-25 17-09-16](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/c6896b67-9592-46e4-a86f-2a42211595dc)

----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values: <1>
                - amd64
                - arm64
----

> <1> Specify the set of supported architecture. Valid values include `amd64` and `arm64`.

Reviewer 3: I was expecting more values with the word "set":

```suggestion

<1> Specify the supported architectures. Valid values include `amd64`,`arm64`, or both values.
```

> Tainting every node for a specific architecture:: You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture to be scheduled on that node. In the case that your cluster is using a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to a `.spec.template.spec.taints` field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tainting every node for a specific architecture:: You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture to be scheduled on that node. In the case where your cluster is using a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to the `.spec.template.spec.taints` field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.
```

> * Before you can taint a node, you must scale down the `MachineSet` object or remove available machines. You can scale down the machine set with the following commands: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before you can taint a node, you must scale down the `MachineSet` object or remove available machines. You can scale down the machine set by using on of the following commands: 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc scale --replicas=0 machineset <machineset> -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
Or: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit machineset <machineset> -n openshift-machine-api
----

> For more information on scaling machine sets, see "Modifying a compute machine set".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information on scaling machine sets, see the "Modifying a compute machine set" section.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove line 54 so that the plus symbol aligns with the p[previous step. This should fix the indent issue.

+
--
.Example `MachineSet` with a taint set
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      [...]
      taints:
      - effect: NoSchedule         
        key: multi-arch.openshift.io/arch                
        value: arm64
----

> You can also set a taint on a specific node by running the following command: 

Reviewer 3: Maybe numeric steps as this might be an optionals step 2?

Author: These are all kinda optional, its more for the user to decide on which way they want to schedule nodes. So its more of a reference

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm taint nodes <node-name> multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64:NoSchedule
----
--

Creating a default toleration:: You can annotate a namespace so all of the workloads get the same default toleration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate namespace my-namespace \
  'scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultTolerations'='[{"operator": "Exists", "effect": "NoSchedule", "key": "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"}]'
----

> Tolerating architecture taints in workloads:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in the pod specification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tolerating architecture taints in workloads:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in the pod's specification.
```

> Tolerating in workloads when the architecture taint is set:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in the pod specification.

Reviewer: > Tolerating in workloads when the architecture taint is set

this title seems missing an object: "tolerating architecture taints in workloads"?

+
.Example deployment with a toleration 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"
        value: "arm64"
        operator: "Equal"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
----
+

> This example deployment will also be allowed on nodes with the `multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64` taint specified.

Reviewer 3: Just  wondering if the future tense is needed:
![Screenshot from 2023-09-25 17-17-54](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/57954076/960ad890-5d3f-462f-b94d-2cffe695b5bc)

Also, maybe more active sentence could help distinguish the agent? I'm unsure what is allowing the action here.

> Using node affinity with taints and tolerations:: When a scheduler computes the set of nodes to schedule a pod, tolerations can broaden the set while node affinity restricts the set. If you set a taint to the nodes of a specific architecture, the following example toleration is required for scheduling nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using node affinity with taints and tolerations:: When a scheduler computes the set of nodes to schedule a pod, tolerations can broaden the set while node affinity restricts the set. If you set a taint to the nodes of a specific architecture, the following example toleration is required for scheduling pods.
```

+

> .Example deployment with a node affinity and toleration set. 

Reviewer 3: Remove period for consistency with other example titles.

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="multi-architecture-scheduling-examples_{context}"]

= Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments 

There are various cases to consider when you are scheduling workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures. 

Using node affinity to schedule workloads on a node:: To allow a workload to be scheduled on only a set of nodes with architectures supported by its images, you can set the `spec.affinity.nodeAffinity` field in your pod template specification.
+
.Example deployment with the `nodeAffinity` set to certain architectures 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: kubernetes.io/arch
                operator: In
                values: <1>
                - amd64
                - arm64
----
<1> Specify the set of supported architecture. Valid values include `amd64` and `arm64`.

> Tainting nodes for a specific architecture:: You can taint a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture to be scheduled on that node. In clusters using a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to a `.spec.template.spec.taints` field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the sentence 
```
In clusters using a `MachineSet` object
```

I used to mention it this way to exclude clusters like the ones installed via UPI methods because they do not leverage the MachineSet. However, I do not know how we refer to these cases in the doc for other scenarios.

Reviewer 4: Agree, lets reword to something like:

> Tainting every node for a specific architecture:: You can add a taint to a node to avoid workloads that are not compatible with its architecture.  In the case that your cluster can use a `MachineSet` object, you can add parameters to a ".spec.template.spec.taints" field to avoid workloads being scheduled on nodes with non-supported architectures.

> * Before you can taint a node, you must scale down the `MachineSet` object or remove available machines. You can scale down the machine set with the following commands: 

Author: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/63915/files

I added some step and referenced the the scale-in and out process in the _Additional resources_ section. I think its a good process to mention if it is a requirement for the user. But I can also easily get rid of it. WDYT @aleskandro

Reviewer: sgtm!

----
--

Creating a default toleration:: You can annotate a namespace so all of the workloads get the same default toleration by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate namespace my-namespace \
  'scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/defaultTolerations'='[{"operator": "Exists", "effect": "NoSchedule", "key": "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"}]'
----

Tolerating in workloads when the architecture taint is set:: On a node with a defined taint, workloads will not be scheduled on that node. However, you can allow them to be scheduled by setting a toleration in the pod specification.
+
.Example deployment with a toleration 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: [...]
spec:
  [...]
  template:
    [...]
    spec:
      tolerations:
      - key: "multi-arch.openshift.io/arch"
        value: "arm64"
        operator: "Equal"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
----

This deployment can be used when you have an existing workload image that is not compatible with the architecture of a new node. This example deployment will also be allowed on nodes with the `multi-arch.openshift.io/arch=arm64` taint specified.

> //not sure if both worked or if there was just meant to be one description here 

Reviewer: Hey I think the first statement (*This deployment can be used when you have an existing workload image that is not compatible with the architecture of a new node*)  is out of the scope

Author: Whoops! I meant to remove that in the previous update. Removing now!

Author: @aleskandro Didn't you mention something about that sentence here, https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/63915#discussion_r1321830944.

Reviewer: Hi @kelbrown20 @Prashanth684 The specific example we are discussing here adds toleration. I suggested the removal because, in this case, we allow the scheduling also on those nodes having the given taint, broadening the set of candidate nodes. Therefore, the user has (1) declared *to avoid* scheduling on the tainted nodes all the pods not tolerating for the taint, (2) added the toleration to a workload to declare that pod *supports/tolerate* the (tainted) architecture.

Reviewer 2: ah..i see . By adding any sort of explanation we would probably be repeating what is already out there in the k8s docs, so makes sense to omit it.

// module included in the following assembly 
//
//post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/multi-architecture-compute-managing.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="multi-architecture-scheduling-examples_{context}"]

= Sample multi-architecture node workload deployments 

There are various cases to consider when you are scheduling workloads on a cluster with compute nodes of different architectures.

//not sure about this format yet

> For example, you can taint a node using a `RuntimeClass` object to avoid unverified workloads, or workloads that are not compatible with an architecture, to be scheduled on that node. 

Reviewer 2: maybe we list some of these options as bullet points in more detail?

Author: Yeah, I was thinking that as well! I'll add some more of those cases we mentioned. Are there any example yaml that we have for those cases?
